I spoke to retired Lebanese General elas
Hannah he's also a strategic analyst and
told me about Israel's looming ground
Invasion what really influences the
ground
operation into Gaza are the demography
topography and geography as well as the
previous experiences between Hamas and
the IDF which are five bloody encounter
since 2005 so I think that what is they
are trying to do is make maybe to probe
the system to test the system to fix
some forces from Hamas and maybe it is
like a live maneuver Under Fire but it
won't be the major access of or the the
main thrust into Gaza because it could
be like a deception to fix Hamas in the
North and then go back into the middle
with where where the weakest point of
Hamas it's in the Middle where is like 6
kilometers between Gaza and the Sea
interesting that you say this could be a
test alas one of the um recently
released captives she spoke of a
spider's web of tunnels underneath Gaza
City how much oversight do you think the
Israelis have of Hamas capabilities and
tactics at the moment we obviously know
there have been failures uh the the
Israelis the ADF are really training in
say Alim where they have the center for
a training for the urban Warfare but the
training is something and the real fight
is different there is like according to
the BBC there is like 500 kilometers of
time that's like the Metro of of Hamas
and Hamas should have been able to plan
for the worst case scenario After the
flood of Al AKA that maybe when they
pulled the Israeli IDF into Gaza they
have to be preparing the ground it's
like uh the X and Y and the Z and also
under the ground so uh the main issue
the main lessons for the Israelis uh
with encounter with Gaza one main
element that that the urban Warfare
Warfare is necessary but at the same
time it's costly are they prepared to
pay the cost well given that's the case
then if we're talking about some very
bloody Urban Warfare potentially ahead
strategically for Israel what is their
next move here I think that according to
what we've reading so far by lots of
analysis that the Americans will allow
the Israelis to really bombard The
Scorch Earth tactic and then uh do like
small limited operation targeting the
Hamas leadership and the infrastructure
and then uh uh go back and withdraw
saying that this is the our theory of
Victories we have achieved our goals and
then we go out because the American are
really influencing what's happening on
the ground